\section{IBM Watson}
\index{IBM Watson}
\index{Watson}




\subsection{New: IBM Watson}

IBM’s Watson computer, named after the company’s first CEO, Thomas
Watson, was created to fulfill an engineering challenge: to defeated
Jeapordy! champions\cite{hid-sp18-525-watson}. Although Watson defeated
for champions, that victory was years in the making.  Numerous
adjustments were required to make all 3 contestants equal.  For
example, Watson was required to push a button, like the other
contestants\cite{hid-sp18-525-watson}. Since the early days of Watson,
many advances in computing have happened. The explosion of machine
learning algorithms and artificial intelligence have greatly expanded
the use of Watson. Watson has developed into a mar- keting slogan, and
is even co-branded with companies, such as H\&R
Block\cite{hid-sp18-525-watson}. Advancements in hardware enabled the
revolution in data analysis that is currently happening. Super
computing, like Watson, along with enhanced al- gorithms have fueled
the revolution. Based on such advances, Watson is now a stand-alone
division at IBM\cite{hid-sp18-525-watson}. Being a separate division and
an individual brand gives IBM the ability to deploy Watson to a myriad
of activities. Watson is the hub of IBM’s cloud computing business.
Watson also forecasts the weather and conducts research from any
number of organizations\cite{hid-sp18-525-watson}.

